Companies have traditionally
owned their network devices, and
kept them in their own office buildings.
But now, a lot of companies are using third-party
providers to manage their networks.
Why?
Well, this model helps companies save
money while giving them access to more network
resources.
The growth of cloud computing is
helping many companies reduce costs and
streamline their network operations.
Cloud computing is the practice of using
remote servers, applications, and network
services that are hosted on the internet
instead of on local physical devices.
Today, the number of businesses that use
cloud computing is increasing every year,
so it's important to understand how cloud
networks function and how to secure them.
Cloud providers offer an alternative
to traditional on-premise networks, and
allow organizations to have the benefits
of the traditional network without storing
the devices and managing
the network on their own.
A cloud network is a collection of servers
or computers that stores resources and
data in a remote data center that
can be accessed via the internet.
Because companies don't house
the servers at their physical location,
these servers are referred
to as being "in the cloud".
Traditional networks host web servers from
a business in its physical location.
However, cloud networks are different from
traditional networks because they use remote servers,
which
allow online services and web applications
to be used
from any geographic location.
Cloud security will become increasingly
relevant to many security professionals as
more organizations migrate
to cloud services.
Cloud service providers offer cloud
computing to maintain applications.
For example,
they provide on-demand storage and
processing power that their
customers only pay as needed.
They also provide business and
web analytics that organizations can use
to monitor their web traffic and sales.
With the transition to cloud networking,
I have witnessed an overlap of identity-based
security on top of the more
traditional network-based solutions.
This meant that my focus needed to be
on verifying both where the traffic is coming from
and
the identity that is coming with it.
More organizations are moving their network
services to the cloud to save money and simplify
their operations.
As this trend has grown,
cloud security has become a significant
aspect of network security.